Hey Brian, hey Julia.
Hey.
Happy to have you here for the podcast.
Everyone in the live stream, thank you for being here.
If you got comments, throw them in the live chat.
We'll try to make them part of the show.
And with that, let's go ahead and kick this off.
Hello and welcome to Python Bytes,
where we deliver Python news and headlines directly to your earbuds.
This is episode 238, recorded June 15th, 2021.
I'm Michael Kennedy.
And I'm Brian Okken.
And I'm Julia Sidnell.
Hey, Julia. Thanks for coming on the show.
Yeah, thanks for having me.
Yeah, it's great.
Why don't you tell folks a bit about yourself?
Yeah, so I'm
the head of open source at SaturnCloud
and a maintainer of Dask.
So I split my time half and half.
I spend half my time just doing regular
maintenance-y stuff on Dask
and then half my time doing
engineering and product management on Saturn Cloud. Saturn Cloud is a data science platform
that really specializes in distributed DAS clusters in Jupyter and making it really easy
for people to get up and going with those things on AWS. Yeah, DAS is really interesting. When I
first heard about it, I thought, "Okay, this is a grid computing scale-out thing, which
I probably don't have a lot of use for." But then I was speaking with Matthew Rocklin about it, and
it has a lot of applicability, even if you have not huge data, huge clusters, right?
Like you can say, even on your local machines,
you know, let's look out across my cores or,
you know, allow me to work with more data than will fit in RAM on my laptop
and stuff like that, right?
Yeah, it has like a whole number of different ways of interacting with it, right?
Like, there's that, there's like, just make this thing go faster by parallelizing it.
There's all the data framing stuff.
There's all the array stuff for more dimensional data.
So it's got a large API.
- Yeah, cool.
And we're gonna touch on a couple of topics
that are not all that unrelated to those things here.
And so, yeah, speaking of data science,
Brian, you wanna kick us off?
- Sure.
Yeah, the first thing I wanna cover is an article
called "Practical SQL for Data Analysis."
This is by Aki Benita.
So one of the things I liked about this
is it was kind of talking about the first bit
of the article was talking about basically
that with data science, you've got pandas
and NumPy and stuff.
And you also often you're dealing with a database,
and SQL on the back end.
So the first part of the article talks about
how some things you can do both in pandas and in SQL,
like SQL queries, it's faster in SQL.
So there's a big chunk that's just talking about how that's faster.
But then he also talks about just basically,
there's a lot of benefits to the flexibility
and the comfortableness you can have with pandas, though.
So trade-offs as to where you're going to push
the push it too far into SQL or having a split is good.
But then he goes through and talks about a whole bunch of great examples
of different things like pivot tables and roll-ups
and choices and different things you can do with either Pandas or SQL,
and really what his recommendations are for
whether it should be in Pandas or in SQL query,
and then how to do those queries.
Because really the gist of the article is,
And this problem space is people are comfortable with pandas,
but they don't really understand SQL queries.
So this sort of good cheat sheet for how to do the queries
is, I think, really kind of a cool thing.
Yeah.
I think it's really neat.
And you have these problems.
You know how to solve them in one or the other.
And I think this compare and contrast is really valuable.
I know how to take the mean of some column in SQL,
but I haven't done it in pandas yet.
Let's go see how to do that.
Or I'm really good at doing pivot tables in pandas,
but boy, I always kind of avoided joins in SQL.
They scared me.
And then how does that even translate?
Right?
I think that back and forth is really valuable.
- Yeah.
Yep.
And then it covers things
that I don't even know what they are,
like aggregate expressions.
I don't even know what that is,
but apparently that's a thing that people do.
- I can help you out at aggregate stuff.
(laughing)
Just kidding.
Julia, what do you think of this?
- Yeah, no, it seems, it's really cool.
Like, I agree that like, that having the,
having an appendix and then a SQL,
that in comparison is super helpful.
Like, SQL is always super scary to me.
And I always end up like Googling a bunch of stuff
whenever I have to mangle my SQL.
But I know it's so fast,
so it's cool to see a way to access that.
- Yeah, absolutely.
This is a good one, Brian.
I think a lot of people will find it useful.
I also wanna just give a quick shout out
to the past a little bit.
Not too long ago, we talked about efficient SQL
on pandas with DuckDB,
where you actually do the SQL queries
against pandas data frames.
So if you're finding that you're trying to do something
and maybe it would be better in SQL,
but you don't wanna say completely switch
all your data over to a relational database,
you just kinda wanna stay in the panda side.
But there's that one or two things,
like this is really cool,
this sort of upgrade your data frame to execute SQL
with the DuckDB query optimizer
is also a kind of a nice intermediary there.
- Yeah, Dask also does some,
I'm gonna try not to make everything about Dask,
but Dask does some things that are kind of,
that kind of take some of the ideas in this article
of like doing predicate pushdown of like,
of pushing down some of the like filters into the read
because it evaluates lazily,
it doesn't have to like grab all the data greedily up front,
it can like do that later.
So you can get some of the benefits.
- That's cool.
And it can also distribute the filter bit,
I guess at that point.
Yeah, nice.
All right, I wanna talk about the usual suspects.
So, okay, that was a pretty good show.
Was that Quentin Tarantino or something like that?
It's not actually about this,
this comes to us from Ruslan Portnoy.
And thank you for sending this in.
mentioned an article that has this really interesting idea.
How do you apply git blame
when you encounter a Python traceback?
So here's the scenario, your code crashes
and you either print out the traceback
or Python does it for you because it's just crashed.
And normally it says, here's the value,
here's the line of code, here's the file it's in,
here's the next line in the call stack,
here's a line of code it's in.
The idea is you can take git blame,
which is a command that says,
show me who changed this line of code
or who wrote this line of code,
at least touched it last on every single line of code.
And I love this whole idea of like, all right, who did this?
And sometimes I'll come across code.
I'm like, this is so crappy.
Like who did this?
Oh wait, that's me.
Okay, well, at least I know how to feel about it.
But the idea is what if your trace back
on each line where it had an exception
could also show who wrote that line of code.
Cool, huh?
- Yeah, that'd be great.
- Yeah, so let's check it out.
It's pretty straightforward.
This is an article by Afar Koren,
and it basically uses two libraries
that are themselves both pretty straightforward.
So like, here's a straightforward example of a traceback,
like trying to pop something off of an empty list.
says on this line in the function pop some,
you know, there's this line here in the call stack
and then the next line, this line in the call stack
and eventually raise a value error,
you know, empty range can't pop nothing off,
you know, something off of nothing, basically.
But this doesn't show you any information about
like maybe who wrote that line
and who wrote this other line up here, right?
So what they did is they took a couple of modules,
traceback and then line cache.
And it turns out when traceback shows you this traceback,
that line, it uses line cache to figure out,
okay, from this actual, I'm guessing byte code
that it's gonna run, this CPython interpreter code,
where did it, like what line of file
did this actually come from, right?
So here's the insight or the thing,
you can actually change what's in the cache.
And because it's a cache,
once it's figured out what the lines are,
it's not gonna read it again.
So it's like a list for each line that you get back
and you can just change the value.
So it said, okay, well, here's like return random.
That's what the line of text was.
They're like, no, no, no,
there's nothing to see here, move along.
If you make that and then you cause it to crash again,
what comes out is, if you go a little bit further down,
normal code, normal code, or normal trace back,
traceback then it just instead of the line of code it says nothing to see here
please move along. Alright so what are you gonna do with that now that you
realize like you can actually change what appears in the traceback. So you
write a little regular expression to go and execute get blame on the various
files and then to re-inject that back into line cache. And so what they do is
they just put if they know the blame they just put you know like 80 lines 80
up to 80 characters of the line,
and then edited on such and such date
by such and such person.
And here's the commit message, right?
And so just basically shelling out to get blame
when it crashes now, you get some really cool stuff.
Like on this slide, it says,
this is edited by many, many days ago
by so-and-so in this git commit and so on.
And what's interesting,
Like this is already in itself useful, I think.
But what's more interesting is other tools use this as well.
So for example, if you use PUDB,
which is a sort of visual debugger, kind of,
it's like a command line one,
visual in the sense of like Emacs is visual,
not like PyCharm is visual,
but it will actually pull up that data.
So you can see they jumped into the PUDB debugger
and it's actually showing all this get blame attribution
as well that they've added.
So yeah, pretty interesting.
What do you all think?
- Yeah, I think that looks really cool.
I mean, I always do GitBlame
whenever I run into something that's weird
with the hope that someone else
would be able to explain it to me.
- Exactly, who knows about this
or who do I talk to about breaking this?
- Right, yeah, you could even put like PR numbers
and stuff in here, right?
And that'd be pretty cool.
- Yeah. - Oh, PR numbers.
That'd be cool.
- Yeah, that'd be super cool.
- Yeah, one of the things I like,
I don't really like the name GitBlame, but it's there.
- Well, I agree with Julia that the main thing I use it for
isn't to try to figure out who broke it,
but who to ask about this chunk of the code.
- I agree.
'Cause usually when you see something
that's really confusing and weird, you're like,
I know they didn't just pick the hard way of doing this
because they didn't wanna do the easy way.
There's something that I don't fully understand,
some edge case that's crazy here.
I'm gonna go talk to that person, so yeah.
- Also, how long ago it was edited.
So if there was something edited yesterday,
that's probably the problem.
- Yeah, exactly.
Like in this little screenshot here,
some of these are edited like 1,427 days ago.
That's probably not the problem, maybe, but probably not.
- I feel like I have the opposite assumption.
Like if something is from six years ago and it's weird,
I'm like, well, probably things were different back then.
- Not bad.
- Yeah.
- Yeah, yeah, it's no longer applicable
to the new data, new situation.
- Yeah.
- Oh, that'd be an interesting thing also,
is to have like a tool that would tell you
if something's like over a thousand days old
or something like that,
you probably should go refactor it
to make sure somebody understands that code.
- Yeah, yeah, for sure.
All right, jumping back to the first item really quick,
in the live stream, Alexander out there,
hey, Alexander, says,
"I wonder if graph databases with Gremlin queries
could be more suitable for data science.
You know, SQL joins are way harder."
Yeah, graph databases are pretty interesting.
If you're trying to understand the relationships,
that may well be better.
I don't know.
Julia, do you got any thoughts on this?
Brian?
- I don't know anything about graph databases.
So out of my league.
- I didn't have a desire to understand graph databases
until I found out that there were Gremlin queries.
Now I think I wanna know.
- Brian, they don't start out as a Gremlin queries.
They're mogwai inserts.
And then if you insert them after midnight,
then they become a Gremlin query.
I mean, come on, we all know how it goes.
You definitely don't wanna get them wet.
(laughing)
- Oh, that's our old show.
I'm not sure if everyone's gonna get that reference,
but yeah, I love that show.
Okay, anyway, let's move on to the next one.
The next one is you, Julia.
- Yeah, so I wanted to highlight FS spec,
so file system spec for people
who can't hear letters very well.
So this is the basis for S3 FS,
sorry, I'm not getting the letters right,
But there's one for GCP, there's one for S3.
And basically it's a file system storage interface
or like the basis for a file system.
And so you can do things like you can open just files
as you can just take a path and open it
as a file object in Python and read it
with all the normal like read, write operations,
but from anywhere.
So there's all these different ones for S3, for GCFs,
and even for HTTP, and just basically anything
you can imagine, anywhere you can imagine a file being,
either there's already been one of these written.
It's kind of like a, it's an interface,
and then you write different packages on top of it
that are like drivers or something,
they have some name for it.
And it allows you to treat the file system
as like this interchangeable building block.
So you don't get, you don't end up writing like
photo three code or something that's like very specific
to a specific cloud storage.
You write like this more general code.
And then it's really useful for like
a lot of free data sets that are hosted on different clouds,
but like they'll sometimes be on one cloud
and sometimes be on another,
but like basically it's the same data.
Or if you're at a company and you wanna like
switch clouds, it just makes that whole thing so much easier.
- It looks really, really useful,
especially for avoiding cloud lock-in.
- Yeah, yeah.
And you can always write,
like you can always write your own one.
If something else pops up,
you can write your own implementation of that.
- Right, so there's an example here
talking about using a file system in the docs
that says something to the effect of,
well, you want to open up a CSV
and feed it off the pandas read CSV.
So normally you would say open CSV file
and then you just say pandas read CSV
and give it the file stream.
But what if that's on the internet?
What if that's on S3 with authentication?
What if that's somewhere else, right?
And so with this one, you can just say
FS file system spec open, here's a URL.
And now that's a stream, right?
Or that could be, here's an S3 location, S3 bucket.
Go get that, right?
- Yeah, yeah, so instead of passing the path
directly into the read function,
you pass in the file object.
And it's really powerful.
Like it seems like a thing that we shouldn't need,
but files, like the file locations
can get so crazy so quickly.
And this just really helps simplify
and like make it so you don't have to think about this stuff
which I think is what most people want.
It's what I want.
- Yeah, for sure.
So like there's a local file system option,
but then you could also have an FTP file system
or you could have something else, right?
All sorts of different options.
- Yeah, yeah, all sorts of stuff.
- Yeah, okay, that's cool.
Brian, what do you think?
Does this have any applicability for you?
- Oh yeah, definitely.
And that's a great abstraction layer to put in place
to just have reading as if it was a file and have it moved.
It also helps you develop tools locally
and then be able to deploy them into a larger space.
So it's cool.
- Yeah, for sure.
One of the things that always makes me a little hesitant
when I hear people say things like, we're cloud native.
I like my app is cloud native.
That's always code word for me.
Like I will never be able to run my app
unless I'm connected to the internet.
You know, it's like,
it depends on all these services together.
And there's no way I can recreate that locally.
But something like this could allow you to say,
well, we're gonna have a local file system version.
but then when we go to production,
we'll switch to S3 or pick it, just pick something.
- I've always wanted to make it either a t-shirt
or a sticker or both that says,
"Not a cloud native, just visiting."
- Nice, I also think Brian,
there might be testing opportunities here.
- Yeah, definitely.
- Give it a test file system, that'd be cool.
- Yeah, and like Julia said, swapping things out
to just have your logic not have to care
where it's coming from.
But I guess it would make sure,
you'd have to make sure all of the interfaces,
the different storage systems really are equal.
But I guess you have to try that out yourself.
- Yeah, there's like kind of a bucket, right?
That's kind of like a dict that you can pass,
which is like storage options.
So I think that might get a little wonky,
depending on what the different backends need,
but the general principles are the same.
And it also, I should have said this originally,
but it also allows, the FS spec itself can contain logic
to do things that are general to all the different libraries
like caching and things like that.
- Oh, interesting, like you could put a caching layer
on top of arbitrary things like S3 and Google Storage
and Azure Buckets or Blob Storage, yeah.
Yeah, maybe even save money on bandwidth there
if you could do some caching.
- Yeah, you can do it right.
- Yeah, super, super neat.
Brian, you're gonna tell us about how to slim down
our Docker containers, but before you do,
I wanna tell people about our sponsor for this episode.
It's brought to you by Sentry.
So how would you like to remove a little stress
from your life in addition to just abstracting
your file system, maybe tracking down some errors?
So do you worry that your users may be having difficulties
or encountering errors with your app right now?
And would you even know it
until they send that support email?
So how much better would it be if you got the error
or performance details sent right away
with all the call stack, maybe you would get blame in there.
The local variables, the active user who was logged in
while this happened, all that kind of stuff.
So with Sentry, it's not only possible,
it's actually really simple.
I've used this on Sentry,
I've used Sentry on our websites before.
So it's on Python Bytes, Talk Python Training,
all those different sites.
And I've actually had someone encounter an error
trying to buy a course over on TalkBython training.
I got the Sentry notification.
I said, "Oh, geez, I can't believe this problem
crept in here."
And I fixed it really quick
and started to roll out the fix
and actually got an email.
They said, "Hey, we're having this problem
buying a course."
I said, "I know, I've almost got it fixed.
Just give me a moment and try again."
And they were just like, "What?
That doesn't make sense."
So they were very surprised.
And so it's surprising to let your users
create your Sentry account at pythonbytes.fm/sentry.
And when you sign up, there's a little got a promo code.
Make sure that you put Python Bytes,
all one word, all caps with a Y in there,
and you'll get two free months
plus a bunch of extra features and so on.
So also it really lets them know that you came from us
rather than just somewhere else
and that helps support the show a lot.
So pythonbytes.fm/sentry and promo code Python Bytes.
Awesome, thanks for supporting the show Sentry.
And Brian, let's talk Docker.
"Yeah, let's talk Docker."
I mean, I'm starting to use Docker more and more,
and I like the experience,
but I was interested when this article came up.
So it was in June, I saw this article called
The Need for Slimmer Containers.
And this is from somebody, Ivan,
I'm not gonna try his last name, Ivan something.
But anyway, it's an interesting discussion.
And the idea around the original host was that there's now a Docker scan that you can use.
So you can use Docker scan to scan for vulnerabilities in your Docker containers.
And I even thought, well, I'll look at some of the standard Python containers that are available.
Right. Theoretically, some of the things that are nice is I can just go and say Docker,
or in my Docker container, I can say from Python colon three nine,
and I don't have to think about how do I install Python,
how do I keep it up to date,
you know, make sure that pip is there and that I'll be able and,
you know, pip install stuff that needs to do build things.
And that's all that stuff will be there, right?
So it seems like, of course, this is what you want.
Yeah, well, and also just that's kind of one of the neat things about Dockers.
I can just say I have these standard parts.
Now I just want to put my custom stuff on top of it.
And it's great.
So what did he find?
So he used-- so Docker scan apparently
uses a third party tool called Snake, S-N-Y-K, container.
And we've covered Snake before, not the container version,
but we covered Snake in episode 227.
But so it's looking for vulnerabilities,
and that's a good thing.
But he found them in everything.
And he found him in all of the standard Python ones,
except for Alpine, I guess.
And so he didn't really know what to make of it, really.
He was just sort of reporting his results,
that maybe Alpine's the only one with few vulnerabilities.
But then this went out on Hacker News,
and there was a big discussion around it.
So he updated the article, which I appreciate,
with some of the feedback that he got.
And so some of the feedback was that
these vulnerability checkers sometimes give you false positives.
And I don't really have enough experience to know what that...
Well, I know what that means, but I don't have enough experience to know if
these really are false positives or if they're
actual vulnerabilities or not.
The other thing that was...
that maybe...
Some people suggested that these standard ones really aren't updated very much.
So I don't really know much about that either.
And if they're not, that's a bummer because I think people are relying on them.
So I actually just am left with a little bit of a confusion as to what to do.
I want to also mention that the Alpine is current one,
there's original article, he says Alpine is pretty good for vulnerabilities.
But then his follow up says it doesn't, there's a lot of applications that can't run on Alpine because of some issues or another. So anyway, I'm not sure what to make of it. So I was hoping Michael might give us some insight.
I did some thinking about this morning. And in fact, I recently spoke a lot about this over on talk by thon. So I had it Mr. On the show, and we talked about best practices for Docker packaging. And we talked a lot about
both security and package size.
So I can try to relay a couple of things from that.
So we've got our official image over here,
our Python official image.
There's actually a bunch of options.
As you can see,
- There's tons.
- There's a few,
(laughs)
310 beta two buster or the 310 RC buster.
That sounds bad, but I think it's actually good.
No, I'm just kidding.
I know what it is.
These are by default based on Debian and Buster is the latest version of Debian.
And so you can do a Buster which is like full Debian with 3.10 or you can do a
3.10 slim Buster which is like a slimmed down version of Debian Buster that
supports Python 3.10. Okay so there's a lot going on here in terms of the
options. One of the, so the article talks about how Alpine had the fewest security vulnerabilities.
And I actually looked, so the Python latest, if you run the sneak package scanner thingy on it,
it says there's 364 vulnerabilities. If you just do Python latest,
3 9 um in 353
After you run apt update apt upgrade. So if you try to get the container to update itself
There's still 353 in the that one
I don't use that I use ubuntu. So I use the ubuntu latest
And the bare version of that one had 31
Vulnerabilities
but then if I
either install python through apt or build it through source and put in the necessary foundational bits like build essentials and stuff
to build python
It goes up to 35 total problems. We're 28 of merlot. So seven are medium. Nothing major
One thing I thought was weird was I actually ran another step where I said, okay
Let's uninstall those intermediate tools like gcc and wget and stuff like that that I needed to get stuff on the machine
But i'm not going to use again
and I took them away and almost all those warnings were about those tools that I had
apt uninstalled. So I don't know why Snyk is still showing them because if I go into the
container I type wget it says nope this thing is not installed sorry but it still says the
warning is that wget has a vulnerability in it for example right so there's like
there's like this over reporting for sure but I mean the difference between 28 and 350 is not
trivial. Right. Right. So like run an apt install python3 type of thing is not you know it's probably
worth it for example. When I switched from python39 to python39 slim buster it went from 350 to 69
so that's a lot better right. Yeah. It's still not as good as it would do but it's a lot better.
The it's still twice as many but I mean you can't it sounds better, but it could be like
359 low problems and then 69 critical ones. It totally could it totally could
If the reporting like if the if if we can't trust snake necessarily then like
maybe
You know if you can't trust your reporting system, then like maybe that maybe none of this is means anything, right? Yeah
Yeah, I think one of the things the article originally started out to address was, if you have fewer subsystems,
there's no chance the missing subsystem could get hacked because it's not there.
Right? So if there's a vulnerability in SSH, but you literally don't install SSH, who cares?
Whereas if you just take the full distribution, you may potentially get affected by something you dragged along.
And then it went down this rat hole of like, well, let me scan it and so on.
I want to add one more thing like Alpine did result in the best outcome from the scanner,
but there's a lot of issues with Alpine and Python.
So for example,
there's this PEP here 656 that right now if I try to pip install something on Alpine,
so especially in the data science world where things are large and then compiling takes a lot of steps and so on.
The wheels that are built for Linux are built for, what is it, Glib?
Gclib? I mean, hold on. I'll look over here. I wrote it down so I know.
No, I didn't write it down. Sorry.
There's like, I think it's Glib or Gclib,
which is the C runtime on like Ubuntu and Debian,
but there's one, MUSL, Muscle, on Alpine.
And the wheels are not built for muscle,
they're built for GCLib.
And so you can't pip install that,
you gotta download everything and then compile it.
And it's like compiling matplotlib and Jupyter from scratch
can take a really long time versus just downloading
the wheel and it takes up a lot of space.
And there's a bunch of issues and things around that
that make it slightly not Python friendly.
That's why there's this PEP 656
to allow wheels to be tagged as supporting muscle, not gclib.
Is that more than you wanted, Brian, or are you good?
- Okay, so the takeaway that I'm getting is
probably not panic on some of these,
but maybe at least pay attention to them.
And it is good, like you said,
to remove tools out of your Docker images
that you're not using.
If you're not using wget in your application,
take it off of there, things like that.
- Yeah, exactly.
I think Julia's point was great, right?
It's, if you, it might be a false positive,
but at the same time, if you're not gonna use it again,
because Docker, a lot of times,
you pip install all your stuff
and then it's kind of ready to run,
but you're not gonna go and pip install something again,
you're gonna do a new Docker build from scratch, right?
Like one of the final lines could be,
remove all those intermediate things
that could have problems and make it larger and whatnot.
- Yeah, I thought, so I've only thought about this
from like package, from like image size, right?
Like that you want similar images
just because it takes forever to get them around.
But it's interesting to think about
from the vulnerability perspective.
And I've always seen it done as
you do whatever installation you need
and then you do all these like cleaning steps.
But what you said, Michael, about like
not ever putting certain things on your image
was interesting, I haven't heard of that before.
- Yeah, thanks.
I also had Peter McKee from, who works at Docker
on Talk Python a little while ago,
like six months ago or something.
And he talks about having these multi-step builds,
something to the effect of,
it doesn't make as much sense with Python,
I'll try to put it together.
But like imagine you're building a Go library,
you could put the Go runtime and build tools on a container,
build your thing, but the thing you get from Go
is an actual binary that's all self-contained.
You could throw that container away
and just copy the output of that into your actual container
and never even put all those tools
on the actual system that goes to production.
Within Python, that might look something like
maybe using PECs to package up all the stuff
inside of a virtual environment.
And long as Python, the runtime is there,
then you can like PECs run on your other machine,
but you could potentially not even ever install those,
which might be good.
- Yeah, that makes sense.
- Yeah, there's a lot there that I'm,
is sort of beyond my comfort level,
But that's what I thought as I looked at this, Brian.
- Well, thanks for taking a look.
- Sure, you bet.
All right.
We like to talk about GUIs on the show every now and then.
And so, and we wanna talk about pandas and data frames
and data science and all that.
So let's put those together.
There's this project over here called pandas GUI.
And the documentation is sparse, let's say.
It's pretty easy.
There's a couple of examples or two.
So I could come down here and I could like do my Panda stuff
and create a data frame.
And then I could just import show from the Pandas GUI.
And within my notebook, it will pop open a separate window
that it then allows me to cruise around and check it out.
So it does, you know, you can print out the data frame
in a notebook and you get kind of a static Excel grid
looking thing.
And that's nice.
But with this, you get a interactive one
that lets you sort and select,
you can actually copy and paste chunks out of there
as if it was Excel and then paste it in other places.
It also has a plotting library with like pictures.
So I'm gonna go click on the bar graph picture
and then there's a list of all the columns
and the things that the bar graph needs
and you can drag and drop of this column is the X axis
and this column is the Y axis
and I wanna group by color and have,
group by color it by some other aspect of the data
and it'll like group into multiple charts
or multiple lines or plots on a chart.
All sorts of cool stuff like that.
There's a statistics section.
There's, you can export, import and export,
I guess, import CSV files with drag and drop.
And there's also search that you can do.
So it's a pretty neat, quick way to explore pandas.
- Yeah, it's a neat idea.
Like when you first encounter a data frame,
Like you really want to just be able to like look at it
without any assumptions.
And there's a lot of stuff that like kind of goes
towards that with like the dot plot API in pandas
and making that, making it really accessible
to make plots really quickly.
But this is like kind of like the step beyond that, right?
Of just visualizing it immediately.
- Yeah, like one thing you get when you view the data frame
as you know, like I said, it looks kind of just like
printing DF in or just typing DF in the notebook.
But then on the right, you can say,
oh, I wanna see the filters
and you can type in these filter expressions,
these query expressions, and then turn them all,
like pile them on, you can have little check boxes
to like optionally turn them off, but not delete them.
And then of course you can work within there, I like that.
And the graphing, I think the support
for the graphing part is really, really helpful.
So the fact that you can just go and click and say,
oh, I want a box plot and then the box plot needs
these things you can just drag and drop from the column
from your data frame definition over
and it just live updates.
- Yeah, I think that really like lets people
visualize the data in the way that they want to sometimes
rather than like the way they already know how
in that part of it,
which I think is what people end up doing.
- Yeah.
- At least for exploratory stuff.
- Yeah, exactly.
you could real quickly switch between a bar, a box,
a scatter plot, back and forth,
without having to actually be familiar with how those works.
- Can you tell if there's a way to export the filters
or is there any method for that?
- I don't think so.
At least in the YouTube explainer video,
there were some comments like,
you know what would be awesome?
Export this as code from here
so that I can just turn it back into Python.
I didn't see anything like that, but.
- Yeah, sometimes GUIs are a little weird for me
because of that, you know,
like you end up in this GUI world and it's not,
you can't reproduce anything.
- I clicked on a whole bunch of stuff
and then it looked great, but don't touch it.
- Yeah, exactly.
- I can't do it again.
- Yeah. - Okay, but to be fair,
it is a fairly quick way to look at the data
and know what you,
maybe you can't produce that exact plot again,
but you know what the data looks like
and you can use a different plotting mechanism to do that.
- Yeah, and the visual is pretty clear.
Like, okay, well, X is assigned to speed
and we know it's a histogram.
And so you could pretty quickly,
with some Googling and Stack Overflow and go,
all right, how do I matplotlib a histogram
and get that going?
- Right, that's a huge time saver.
- Yeah, but some sort of export of like,
okay, give me the code to make this plot in my own code.
That would be great.
- Yep, absolutely.
Absolutely.
All right, onto the next, but before we get there,
I do wanna call out just a shout out by PyLang
that FSSpec is sweet, good mention.
Yeah, I like it as well.
- Cool.
- All right, X-Ray.
- X-Ray.
- Go ahead, Julie.
- Okay.
So X-Ray is, it's my favorite library.
It's like a pandas, so it's a pandas-like API.
but it's for n-dimensional data.
So if you have like, a lot of times people talk about
in like geospatial data where there's that long time
and others, but also for image data
where there's maybe a bunch of different bands
from like satellite imagery or other disciplines
where you just have labeled data that's not tabular.
So the axis like mean something,
but there's not just one or two of them.
then X-Ray is great for that,
'cause it lets you do things like you can select
a certain subset of time
or a certain subset of whatever your dimension is.
And you can also aggregate across different dimensions,
and you can use the labels directly.
So if you don't have a tool like this,
I see people doing this a lot
with machine learning workflows,
where they'll have separate,
like a list of all their,
they'll have like a list of all their labels
and then they'll have their data
and they'll do some manipulation
and they'll try to like reattach them at the end.
And it just turns into a mess.
And it's actually just like takes care of that all for you.
It's pretty great.
And I think that it has applications
that have not been fully realized yet.
And it's starting to like take off in other spaces,
but it really comes from this geospatial world,
but I think it could be useful for all sorts of people.
- Right, because in geospatial,
sometimes you have three dimensions, not just two.
- Yeah, you almost always have three.
- Sorry, Brian, go ahead.
- No, the documentation looks great too.
The documentation has like, it gets getting started guides
and tutorials and videos and galleries and stuff.
So definitely check out the documentation.
- Yeah, I think it got a major,
it seems like I looked at it for this too,
and it seems like it got a major facelift.
So it looks really nice.
It also has like plotting,
it has a Poisson.plot API,
or some different version of it
that's like the pandas version,
but you can plot in different three dimensions
or aggregate and then plot.
And that's like a really nice way
to get the visuals quickly.
And then the last thing I wanted to say about it
is that it's normally backed by NumPy arrays,
but it can also be backed by Dask arrays or Sparse arrays
or all sorts of different arrays natively.
So it's a really cool,
it's another one of these like building block things
where you can have extra ways like your labeling
and your indexing and all the nice stuff
and then down inside it can be NumPy or Qpy or Dask.
- How interesting.
So it can do that juggling and piecing back together
that other people are manually doing
and you just have this simple API
and if it has to do that, it'll figure it out.
- Yeah, yeah.
That's pretty cool.
- Nice, and you talked about QPy and Dask,
like those are some pretty interesting back ends for this.
- Yeah, yeah.
The Dask one is,
I said QPy and now I'm wondering if maybe it's just like
Dask and then QPy, so don't quote me on that.
- Yeah, yeah.
- But yeah, the Dask one is,
is like really integrated with X-Ray code.
So you do like, they do just do some special things
to make it so that it works with parallelizing and things.
But from the user experience, it's the same.
- Yeah, fantastic.
And then also noticed it requires Python 3.7.
Really nice to see tools sort of keeping up
with the latest, not really old stuff.
- Well, hopefully it's 3.7 and above.
- Well, yeah, greater than or equal to.
- Well, I mean, I ran into a library.
it was an internal thing that was only 3.7.
So I tried it on, I'm like, I assumed or above
and I tried it on 3.9 and it like fell over.
Like what's going on?
It was only 3.7, it's weird.
(laughing)
- Okay, that is weird.
- That'd be interesting to think about
what special features of 3.7 there
depending on the broken 3.8.
- Yeah, that's what I was thinking.
Like, how do you do that?
Without just checking for equal, equal 3.7 on version.
- Yeah.
So anyway.
All right, well, that's it for our six main topics.
Brian, you got anything else
you wanna throw out there quickly?
- Yeah, actually.
So I didn't have this up,
but there was a, on Twitter,
somebody's like reacted to me with an emoji
and I didn't know what they meant.
So I looked up, let me pop this up.
this emojipedia and it was helpful.
And you can just copy and paste the emoji
that somebody uses in there and it tells you what it means.
And the, you know, kind of not just what it's supposed
to mean, but also what people are using it for.
Anyway, for somebody that's sort of an old guy
that is out of touch sometimes, this was helpful.
Anyway.
- Yeah, I mean, sometimes it's obvious,
Like a heart, we know what a heart means, right?
But you know, like hands together,
it's not necessarily that that's like a thank you
sort of bow type of thing.
I mean, there's certain ones where you're like,
ah, what does that mean?
- It was like a hands together with like arrows
coming out of the top.
And I'm like, I don't know what this is,
but apparently it's just raising hands.
Like you're saying hooray for somebody.
Oh, okay, that's nice.
- Okay.
- It's good.
- I use Emojipedia all the time,
but I think I use it in the opposite way.
I use it to get an emoji to put somewhere,
because I don't have an emoji keyboard or whatever.
Oh, yeah, that would be good, too.
The other thing I wanted to bring up is I hopefully have some cool news
to share tomorrow about the pytestbook,
and the news will show up on a revamped pytestbook site.
So if you go to pytestbook.com,
you get redirected to this pythontest.com page
where I'll talk about the second edition.
So hopefully there'll be news
about the second edition coming out tomorrow.
- This is your static site magic?
- Yeah, yeah, static site.
And I totally, and it goes dark and light.
This is fun.
But I totally stole from Prajan.
So Prajan has the same, he's got a really nice site.
So it's a bunch of great, great.
It looked great.
And I'm like, that'll work.
I'll just do what he's doing.
So that's what I did.
- Yeah, yeah, very cool.
- I think we have exactly the same stack
for our Saturn Cloud site now.
- Oh, how neat. - That's cool.
- Awesome, how about you, Julie?
Anything else you wanna give a shout out to?
- Well, I've been really into entry points recently.
Just like the concept of them is very cool.
- As in like Python packages,
you can give them almost like CLI command
type of entry points?
- Yeah, but the thing that I think is really cool
is like, like, like matplotlib,
this is an example that made me first realize
about entry points is matplotlib has this .plat,
I think I mentioned this three times now,
but you can swap out the backend,
so you don't have to have matplotlib,
you can use other backends,
and all the logic for that is in
the other visualization libraries themselves,
not in pandas.
So it's just like, you can swap out other things,
it's not just for CLIs, I guess.
- Okay, yeah, how neat.
All right, yeah, I learned about entry points
a year, year and a half ago,
And ever since I'm, oh yeah, this is awesome.
I can now create these little commands
that'll be part of just my shell.
I love it.
- Yeah.
The other thing I wanted to say was
the GitHub CLI is really cool.
I think that's standalone, but it's, I've been using it.
- I'm sure people know the Git CLI,
but what's the story of the GitHub CLI?
- Oh, well, the GitHub CLI is, makes it,
so if you have ever tried to check out a branch
on someone else's fork,
Like if you want to like evaluate a PR
that someone has put on the forum.
- Yeah, exactly, yeah.
- That is the situation where the GitHub CLI is really great
'cause you can just do like gh checkout PR
or gh PR checkout, whatever the number is
and that you're just on their branch then.
And if you can push, if you have push access
to their branch of your maintainer and they've allowed it,
you can just push directly and you don't,
I mean, I was always looking at that
like sequence of commands before,
I know people have like aliases and stuff,
but yeah, I'd really recommend checking it out
if you do a lot of GitHub stuff.
- Okay, awesome.
Yeah, that's great advice.
- Yeah, I often wanna like check out some pull requests.
I wanna be able to like play with it, run their code.
- Yeah.
- And so, yeah.
- It's the best.
- Yeah, awesome.
All right, I got a couple of things to add.
By the way, first of all,
just that first practical SQL analysis
that you talked about,
it also has a similar theme
that you were talking about, Brian.
One of the things I thought was cool though,
as you scroll through it,
it has a progress bar for reading at the top.
And that just made me so happy.
I don't know why.
- Oh.
- That was really neat.
All right, but I have a bunch of
hear all about it sort of things.
So really quick, Python,
P2, it's got the center.
Yeah, okay.
Live update.
Python 3.10 beta two is out
if people want to check that out
and you can go download that.
It also highlights all the major features
like the pipe operator for writing unions
type specifications and a bunch of other stuff that people might care about.
A structural pattern matching is probably a big one.
Yeah, go to the completely different down. Is that on here?
And now for something completely different. I love that part. So right above the files.
Yeah. Oh, interesting. The Aaron Fest paradox concerns the rotation of a rigid disc in the
the theory of relativity.
It's original 1909 formulation presented by,
yeah, okay, that is unexpected, but very cool.
- And completely different and irrelevant, yeah.
- Yeah, awesome, okay.
So takeaway, 3.10 beta two is out,
people can check that out.
There's also some security patches for Django,
so be sure to check that out.
One thing that surprised me is the Microsoft
install Python from the Windows Store
He's already like has a 310 beta store install.
So, okay, that's pretty cool
that they're keeping that up to date.
- And it's rated E for everyone.
- Yeah, even kids can pip install, awesome.
So Frederick Bankston sent a message
in response to our last show
where we talked about the method overloading by type.
Like if it takes an int or a string,
it calls different functions.
It's also pointed us towards this multi-method
other library that is similar so people can check that out.
That's cool.
- Yeah, neat.
- Speaking of the GitHub stuff,
I've been starting to use PyCharm 2021.2
early access version, early access program version,
and it's been working fine.
So if people wanna try out the new features,
there's a bunch of cool stuff.
You have support for Python 3.10
and new stuff for pytest.
I don't remember if this came in here,
but one thing that I did learn about
that recently that's in there that's super cool is
they have in PyCharm,
if you log in PyCharm into your GitHub account,
there's a pull request section and you can just click it
and it'll do those same steps that Julia was talking about,
like right there in PyCharm.
Just go, I wanna try that PR before I accept it
and just click that and go.
You can even have comments.
You see the conversation inside there
and everything is cool.
- Never go to a GitHub again.
- Exactly.
and just forget how to use it basically.
All right, that's it.
That's all the items I got.
So yeah, I've got other stuff
that's just hanging around from before.
- Cool.
- All right, well, you wanna close it out with a joke?
- Yeah, always. - A couple of jokes?
Always, all right.
So over at upjoke.com/programmer-jokes,
you'll find many bad jokes.
Some even that are not very appropriate or whatever,
but there's a few that are funny.
So I pulled out three here.
I'll do the first one.
Brian, you can do the second,
Julie, you can do the third, I guess, if you're up for it.
- Okay.
- So this one we should have saved
for six months from now,
but I asked a programmer
what her new year's resolution would be.
She answered 1920 by 1080.
- That's so bad.
No, that's awesome.
- It's really bad.
All right, well, you got to do the next one.
(laughing)
- How does a programmer confuse a mathematician?
- I don't know how.
saying that X equals X plus one.
(laughing)
- All right, Julia.
- Okay, why do Python programmers have low self-esteem?
They're constantly comparing their self to other.
(laughing)
- Also bad, probably the worst, sorry we gave you that one.
- That's okay.
I saw the one that Brian did and I was like,
oh, it should be X plus equals one.
I was like, no, that ruins the joke.
(laughing)
- Exactly.
- Yeah.
Yeah, I actually often do the slow way
or the non-obvious way of X equals X plus one
just to make it more obvious to people reading it.
- Yeah, yeah, no, I agree.
- Yeah, at least it's not C++ with X, plus plus X.
- Right?
- No, no, we should have that.
- I'm okay with X plus plus, but not that also plus plus X.
- The pre-increment.
- Yeah, the pre-increment.
- Pre-increment's weird.
- Yes, exactly, exactly.
But I could go for an X plus plus, come on.
All right, well, Julia, thanks for joining us this week.
And Brian, thanks as always.
- Always a pleasure.
Thanks, Julia.
- Yeah, it's fun.
- Bye. - Bye.
- Bye, everyone.
[BLANK_AUDIO]